Previous Part                                   | Return to Introduction                  |
----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
[Part 13: The Bonus Challenge](/PART13BONUS.md) | [Introduction](/README.md#introduction) |

# Conclusion / Closing Thoughts
Whew, this was quite the writeup.
First off, I just want to say thank you to those who took the time to read all of this from beginning to end. This project was an experience like no other for me; choosing to use tools other than the ones MyDFIR used in his series as well as adding an additional challenge of my own meant experiencing a unique set of hurdles that forced me to actually sit back and comprehend the situation. Many of those hurdles were difficult; some were a bit of a timesink, such as going through the logs generated by view.exe, and a few were even impossible to conquer. But, for the most part, I persevered to the end, and in turn, gained a fundamental understanding of the following:
Networking (ports, IP addresses, subnets, firewalls, access control lists (ACLs), classless inter-domain routing blocks (CIDR blocks, or subnet masks))
Detection engineering with EDRs
Splunk (& SIEM tools)
Log analysis of suspicious login activity & malware
Troubleshooting
In addition to the above, there were also a couple of takeaways I got:
For networking, diagraming really does help in visualizing a setup. So, it’s recommended to have one drafted.
When learning new concepts, try deviating, if applicable. For instance, if a video series uses a specific SIEM tool, use a different one; the same applies for CIDR block notations. Even small deviations can be a more effective method of learning compared to following step-by-step exactly.
Some of the tasks I did in this lab were a bit of a timesink. The main series was finished in a little over a month, while the bonus challenge took another month, and writing this took about 5 months of on-and-off working. When writing this out, I wanted to be as structured, thorough and detailed as possible, while trying not to sound redundant. Transcribing notes to fully-fledged document form, it can be hard finding the proper words. As a result, this hence why this writeup took longer than anticipated; it didn’t help that I got sick a couple of times throughout the drafting process. 
Something that I want to add is that this is my first time trying to look into the activity of a real internet malware. As such, good chances are I may have made some misjudgements throughout my analysis. If you find anything interesting in the Splunk screenshots from the Part 13 analysis phase that I missed, by all means let me know; I can apply this knowledge and continue improving my skills in any future SIEM projects.
To cap off this writeup, I’d like to share my next steps going forward. I definitely want to work on the following, from highest priority to lowest:
Learn AI. Having heard many stories about AI and the future, it’s become clear to me that if I’m going to succeed in today’s cybersecurity industry, having proficiency with this tool is a must. Knowledge of this tool would enable efficient SOC analysis workflows, using it to take care of repetitive alerts so that I can direct my focus onto more interesting ones.
Get proficient with Wireshark. Because of my lackluster experience with Wireshark, I was not able to make good work of the packet capture for the view.exe executable like I hoped. Since MyDFIR said this is a tool that a SOC analyst should be familiar with, I’d want to make learning this as much of a priority as learning about AI. The site http://malware-traffic-analysis.net should be helpful in accomplishing this goal as soon as possible.
Improve my SOC analysis workflow. While I’m learning about AI and Wireshark, I’d also like to find the time to improve my SOC analysis skills through additional malware home lab projects.
Learn more about EDRs. This is not as urgent of a goal compared to the others, but still something worthwhile for the future. While I have dabbled with Aurora Lite in this lab, the tool only provides a limited experience with EDRs (which is a given, considering this is the free version of Aurora). Hopefully, I can get my hands on a fully-fledged EDR to fiddle around with for the full experience.
With that, it’s finally time for me to wrap this up. Again, thank you to all those who took the time to read this entire writeup; I hope you all came out of this with something that you can apply to your own projects.

Until then, keep on Splunking.
Jack

## Additional Sources
- Pipes
  - https://www.splunk.com/en_us/blog/security/named-pipe-threats.html
  - https://versprite.com/vs-labs/microsoft-windows-pipes-intro/
  - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ipc/pipes
- CIDR Blocks
  - https://wiki.teltonika-networks.com/view/What_is_a_Netmask%3F
  - https://dnsmadeeasy.com/resources/subnet-mask-cheat-sheet
